---
published: true
---

With articles running the gamut of the human and natural sciences, ‘National Geographic’ is a magazine with an unusually broad scope. Now it’s turned its hand to food, with the second UK spin-off from the main magazine since the launch of ‘Traveller’ in 2010.

##The coast with the most

Sun, sand and surf have long formed the backbone of the Gold Coast’s success and popularity. Yet today this pristine 57km stretch of coastline is becoming better known for a business community bolstered by creative entrepreneurs, esteemed educational institutions and infrastructure to support major global companies. The city has been smart in investing in quality systems that will not only provide a well-designed welcome to the 2018 Commonwealth Games but also sustain a city of global significance for years to come. The dynamic city is attracting investment and business partnerships from nearby Asia, enlivening the coastal city and proving that there’s much more to enjoy here than good weather. While much world-class infrastructure already exists here, there is more to come. Griffith University’s Gold Coast location is the fastest-growing university campus in the nation. The new Health and Knowledge Precinct will inject AU$2.9bn (€1.85bn) into the local economy and the new light-rail network is the best way to zip around the beachside community. The international airport is expanding and new sporting venues will host international events.

##Attracting global talent 

The Gold Coast is a city with big personality and ambition, powered by an energy that makes it one of Australia’s most vibrant communities. It is the idyllic climate, however, that keeps the pace of Gold Coast life so relaxed. The Gold Coast draws in everyone from entrepreneurial creatives starting design agencies to scientists relocating to work in distinguished research institutions. Every year friendly locals welcome tens of thousands of international students and some 13 million visitors overall. It is a favourite among professional athletes and is a second home for many Hollywood A-listers while they are in the city filming at Village Roadshow Studios. Similar to neighbours Melbourne and Sydney, the Gold Coast is big in the food-and-beverage department, attracting top chefs, baristas and sommeliers. The waters are charted by Australia’s largest super-yacht builders and technology firms are using the city as their global headquarters. It is a remarkable city that people are attracted to and then bring their own energy to create a potent mix of creativity and innovation. This vision is recreating a city, and making a mark globally.
