---
published: false
---
On Tuesday we got back from our vacation to NYC. We've been talking about going for forever, and this was the year we finally made it happen! But as a heads up I'm going to spend 10% of this post talking about the fun stuff we did and the other 90% talking about what it was like to travel with a 17-month-old toddler, because I want to be the cool mom who travels a lot with her kids, but right now I'm feeling a little terrified to get on a plane with her again. 

So first the highlights. My favorite part was meeting up with some of our old friends. One of my cousins and her husband even came to visit us all the way from D.C. and got to meet Hazel for the first time. The pizza and pastries in NYC are still excellent. I got to eat the cronut again at Dominique Ansel's bakery. You guys know I'm a huge fan of Glossier, and we were able to visit their showroom in Soho. We explored a lot of Central Park and found playgrounds everywhere we went for Hazel to run around on. So it was a good trip, and I'm glad we went, but I gotta say, traveling with a toddler is not for the faint of heart. (Which is me. I'm pretty sure after this trip I am the faint of heart).

This was the longest, biggest trip we've been on with Hazel so far and parts of it were just really hard. I think it was a combination of the time change, how much we tried to pack into each day, and her schedule just generally being off, but she was not her usual, happy self. 

So first let's talk about the flights. It was a long flight. Nearly 6 hours. The longest one we've taken Hazel on so far. Overall she actually did great, there wasn't really any yelling or crying, but I do think this age is just a hard one for travel. When she was a baby all I had to do was feed her and she would sleep most of the trip. And when kids are older they have the attention span for movies on an iPad. But right now, she has the attention span of a goldfish and all she wants to do is move. We had to change activities every 5 minutes and spent a lot of time walking up and down the aisle. For both flights we had to get up relatively early, and I'd say the hardest part was feeling really tired, but not being able to get any rest. We had to be ON for all 6 hours to make sure she was content, and that was exhausting.

Then there was the trip itself. It's a 3 hour time change, which I knew wouldn't be easy, but Hazel seemed to have a particularly hard time with it. She's always had an easy-going temperament, so I didn't do as much research as I probably should have on how to help toddlers work through time differences. The one thing I read was that if it isn't too big of a time change, and you're there less than a week, you can just keep them on their regular schedule. That seemed like an ok idea until we got there. Brian and I naturally wanted to go to bed earlier after a long day of exploring the city. And sometimes that worked for Hazel, but other times it didn't. 

I will say she was great about taking naps in her stroller while we were out, which I'm super grateful for, but bedtime was a different story. She's usually an angel at bedtime, but on this trip, she refused to fall asleep on her own and would only go down if we were holding her. This meant bedtime could take a lot longer than we were used to, and there were a couple nights that were particularly hard. 

So what did I learn from all this? If I had to do it over again I would probably have planned less and allowed for more flexibility in our schedule, which is what we ended up doing by default. I tried to plan full days so we could see as much as possible, but Hazel just couldn't do it. She tired of her stroller quickly, and we ended up spending a lot more time than I planned for hanging out at a park or back at the apartment so she could do her thing. We may not have gotten to everything on our list, but letting her out when she needed a break helped all of us stay sane.

I think finding a great place to stay when you're traveling with kids can make a big difference too. I prefer doing an Airbnb over a hotel these days so we have more space and access to a kitchen. The place we stayed at was exactly what we needed. It had two bedrooms(!), so Hazel had her own room at night, which helped all of us sleep better. The couple we were renting from also have children, so there was a crib and lots of toys for her to play with. It also had a washer and dryer in the apartment, which we consider such a luxury!

For plane travel, I read a few tips from other moms and tried to arm myself with all the stuff they said were helpful on long flights. Most things we brought Hazel ended up having zero interest in (again, I think she's slightly too young to care), but this sticker book was a winner. Mostly we kept her pacified with snacks. 

Speaking of, bring lots of snacks! Whenever Hazel started to get fussy food was usually a great distraction. We did a grocery store run shortly after we arrived, so we had breakfast foods and lots of healthy snacks on hand. These were a big hit with her and I'm happy with the ingredients. 

So there you have it! Like I said, we had some good moments, but we are all really grateful to be home. Right after we got back Hazel fell asleep on her own without a fuss and has snapped right back to her usual, happy self. So maybe she's just a homebody? I don't know. 

Any tips you'd share for traveling with a toddler? I'm especially interested in knowing how you get them to fall asleep on their own when you're traveling. Do tell! 
