---
published: false
---
The fact that August has come to an end makes my head spin. Where did the summer go? While I'll always get excited about the fall and all the cliches it brings (crunchy leaves! hot chocolate! sweaters!), I love summer and this one went by too quickly. However, the weather this past month has been full-blown San Francisco summer – Cloudy, foggy, sometimes cold, and windy. The nicer weather usually shows up around here in the fall. It's confusing for my wardrobe. I crave wearing sweaters in September and October, but most of the time I'm melting in a t-shirt. 

We didn't do any traveling in August, but my parents did come for a quick visit, and it's always great to see them. They've happily settled into their role as grandparents, and I love seeing them with Hazel. Plus it's super nice to have an extra set of hands around to watch her, so I can actually cook and make the bed and get ready in the morning. Here are a few more highlights from August...

**Peach picking with my parents**. My parents have been to the city enough times that we've run out of all typical things to do, so I thought it might be fun to get out of town and go peach picking. A friend recommended a u-pick farm in Brentwood. While the weather was miserably hot, there's something magical about picking fruit yourself right off the tree. We picked way more peaches than we planned on, but they were incredible. They were so sweet it was like summer in your mouth. We ate through all of them quickly, and now the standard supermarket peaches are ruined for me forever. 

**Visiting the Discovery Museum**. This is a museum across the Golden Gate Bridge that isn't really a museum at all, but more of an interactive learning experience for kids. All of the exhibits are meant to be interacted with, and it feels more like a giant playground than anything else. I'd never been before, but a friend invited us to go with her this month and kindly got us in for free with her membership pass. We only had time to explore one small section of it, but I'm excited to go back. Hazel is at the perfect age for that kind of thing, and it's so fun to see her explore and try new things. 

**My Spinning Class**. Despite a rough start, I've continued going to a spinning class once a week in the early morning. It's a tough workout, but I've come to really like it. What I like about spinning is you can make your workout as hard or as easy as you like. There's an instructor giving you suggestions on when to turn up the intensity, but really it's up to you. And as long as my heart rate is up and my legs are burning, I'm good. It's also nice to get a workout out of the way before the world wakes up. The days I go can be extra long, but if I get a nap in when Hazel does later that afternoon I feel great. As another small related highlight – Target has been coming out with a bunch of new clothing lines and their athletic one, Joy Lab, is super cute. I bought this outfit to reward myself for going to spinning consistently. 

**La Marais bakery**. This bakery is tucked away in the Marina neighborhood and has a unique pastry called a kouign amann baton. It's a similar flavor and texture to a traditional kouign amann (my favorite), but in the shape of a stick, which makes it much easier, and less messy, to eat. The bakery itself is super cute with all things French in the decor and atmosphere. I noticed the tile pattern around their pastry case is the same one printed on their boxes, which is a sweet touch. The other pastry I tried was a lemon blackberry danish (I think), and it was delicious. I'll definitely be going back the next time I'm in the neighborhood. 

**Hazel at 16 months**. Hazel turned 16 months on Thursday, and this might be my new favorite stage. She's just so much fun right now. The word she says the most is "mama," and she uses it for both Brian and I. When Hazel wakes up in the morning I usually get her bottle ready and Brian gets Hazel out of her crib. She exclaims "Mama!" when she sees him, and it makes me laugh every time. She loves books and likes to "read" to herself which melts my heart. She also sings a lot. I guess I didn't really know babies sing before they can talk, and it is the sweetest thing. She also loves to have us sing to her, and when she is upset or mad about something we can usually sing a song to distract her. She continues to try and be fiercely independent. She never holds our hands when she's walking and prefers to feed herself. I can't get her to use any kind of sippy cup, so we're still using the bottle, and she's starting to show an aversion to vegetables (how do they even know?). She squeals and kicks when she sees balloons and can spot them from a mile away. Her favorite toy is still her red rubber ball and whenever another child at the playground is playing with a ball she wants to play with it too. If she sees someone playing basketball or soccer she becomes transfixed. It makes me wonder if she'll enjoy playing sports someday, or if it's just a favorite toy she enjoys observing. Anyway, she's just a ton of fun and we're loving (mostly) every minute with her. 
 
