---
published: true
---
Historically, I've had a bit of a hard time with my birthday. It's January 3rd – The day you usually go back to work and school after a nice holiday break, so everyone is in a bad mood. It's a little too close to Christmas to remember to get another gift. Everyone just started their new year's resolutions so they don't want to eat cake or anything sugary. And the idea of having one more get together is unthinkable.

It also means I get hit with a new year and a new age all at once. It causes a lot of self-reflection. The world is one year older and so am I. But I have to say, one nice thing that comes with age is you start to really figure yourself out. I know what makes me happy. I know what makes me stressed. I know my strengths and weaknesses, and am feeling more comfortable in my skin. It's nice. And it means birthdays aren't stressing me out as much as they used to.

2017 was a good year, but also a hard one. There were a lot of changes that made us stretch and grow. The biggest change of course, is Hazel. I was pregnant this time last year and my biggest new year resolution was, "Get ready for this baby!" She was set to arrive May 1st, and came one day early on April 30th. Her birth is, of course, one of the most incredible moments of my life. I have a new awe for my body and respect for mothers everywhere. Honestly, every mother I meet now I want to hug and shout, "We did it! You are incredible!"

The other big change was our move. I mentioned in my last post we were in a studio the better part of our time in San Francisco, but a couple months before Hazel was born we found a new one bedroom apartment. It's been a good change, but moving is always exhausting. Fortunately, we're feeling a lot more settled now. Hazel is cozied up in a mini crib in our larger closet and she sleeps well in there.

Before Hazel and our move, Brian started a new job back in February. We didn't tell anyone at the time, but he actually quit his previous job without anything new lined up. We just felt like it was time for a change and were confident he would find something else. And he did! They've kept him busy, but overall he likes the team he's working on. It's been a good fit so far.

And finally, Brian had a pretty big procedure on his foot in December. After a year of ongoing foot pain and several doctor appointments, he was diagnosed with a benign bone tumor. They don't know what causes these types of tumors, but they are terribly painful. The procedure went well, and we are feeling really grateful to live in an area with easy access to cutting edge medicine (thank you UCSF!). He's recovering well and will need to take it easy for the next year.

It was, without exaggeration, a life-changing year. We are TIRED! And looking forward to a (hopefully) quieter 2018 and last year of my 20's. Hazel is keeping us busy, but is such a joy and light in our lives. I feel lucky to be married to a man who is kind and funny and a good match for me. We still like each other! And I feel like I'm getting to that sweet spot where I'm really, truly happy. That said, I think a few relaxing, beach-side vacations this year are in order. Any suggestions?
