---
published: true
description: >-
  Many people are surprised to hear our baby sleeps in a closet. But I can
  promise you it's very common in San Francisco. Real estate is expensive, and
  when it comes to sleeping arrangements we have to get creative!
---
Many people are surprised to hear our baby sleeps in a closet. But I can promise you it's very common in San Francisco. Real estate is expensive, and when it comes to sleeping arrangements we have to get creative!

The closet we have Hazel in is a deep walk-in closet. We've turned the back half into a nursery and the front half is where I keep all of my clothes (Brian keeps his things in our smaller bedroom closet). When we were considering renting this apartment I liked that the closet was big enough we could transform the whole thing into a small bedroom for Hazel if we needed to. But for now, she doesn't require a lot of sleeping space. 

The closet has a window in the back, which I think helps make it feel a little more like a bedroom. It's an south-facing window that gets a ton of light during the day. I'm normally all for natural light, but it was way too bright for her sleep in there, so we ended up installing a curtain over it for naptimes.

The crib is [a mini crib from Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002MZMDX8/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B002MZMDX8&linkCode=as2&tag=redletterda04-20&linkId=5e3d8d6bb05525772712777a5d74b275), and I love how perfectly it fits in the space! The crib came with a mattress, but it was kind of thin and flimsy, so we bought [a thicker organic one instead](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00HAZS67W/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B00HAZS67W&linkCode=as2&tag=redletterda04-20&linkId=d029a14f67a708ba67a505ae0646368b). [The dresser](https://www.target.com/p/modern-3-drawer-dresser-white-room-essentials-153/-/A-51111228?ref=tgt_adv_XS000000&AFID=google_pla_df&CPNG=PLA_Furniture+Shopping_Brand&adgroup=SC_Furniture&LID=700000001170770pgs&network=g&device=c&location=9031938&gclid=Cj0KCQjwn-bWBRDGARIsAPS1svvVvxHmw4LKNus3QK-xTJgAdJiJqZbRrJ2VnGf_vf44hViGc_vcW7IaAkABEALw_wcB&gclsrc=aw.ds) is a Target find on Craigslist, and that's where we keep all of her clothes. I try my best to keep that dresser organized, but man is it an ongoing process. I go through it regularly to make sure everything in there still fits her, and we try to only keep a small collection of clothes. [Drawer dividers from Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01DYXHI0E/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B01DYXHI0E&linkCode=as2&tag=redletterda04-20&linkId=9a00aae99df16e83e9886aba1343ce30) have been helpful to keep everything tidy.

We moved Hazel into the closet when she was about 6 months old. Before that, she slept in our room. In the early days, we mostly co-slept because it was the only way we could get her to sleep! We kept trying to move her to a bassinet, but she would cry every time. The biggest issue we had with co-sleeping was that _we_ weren't sleeping. Brian and I were both really worried about rolling over her, and the anxiety of that meant we weren't sleeping well. (This anxiety has stuck with Brian, who sleep talks, and has woken me up on several occasions frantically trying to stop Hazel from rolling off the bed. She hasn't slept with us in months! When I reassure him that she's sound asleep in her crib he falls back asleep with no memory of it the next morning).

Finally, a friend gave us their old [rock n' play](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01K7VHP90/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B01K7VHP90&linkCode=as2&tag=redletterda04-20&linkId=a1cdb5033f8af279164103aac6ff56dd), and that thing saved us. The first time I put Hazel in it she slept for 5 hours. It was a miracle! After that, we used it all the time, and she quickly became a great sleeper. If I remember right she slept through the night at just 2 months old. I'm telling you the [rock n' play](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01K7VHP90/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B01K7VHP90&linkCode=as2&tag=redletterda04-20&linkId=a1cdb5033f8af279164103aac6ff56dd) (with auto rock!) is a game changer. I recommend it to everyone. I also highly recommend the [Love to Dream Swaddle](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0081GJ038/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B0081GJ038&linkCode=as2&tag=redletterda04-20&linkId=4273b3c31996532bb1dbf4dfde0c77e4). SO much easier than using a blanket, and it lets them keep their hands up, which was the only way Hazel wanted to sleep. 


I went back to work when Hazel was 5 months old, and around that time she started to have sleep issues (of course). I remember bedtime becoming a huge struggle. I would nurse her to sleep like I always did, she would sleep for an hour, and then wake up again. Some evenings we were putting her to bed 5x in a row. Getting up with her over and over again at night followed by a full work day was completely miserable. Something needed to change, so we turned to sleep training. 

We decided to move Hazel into the closet and try sleep training at the same time and it was... rough. It was a lot of changes for her (and us!) all at once, but in the end, we're glad we did it. We did the [Feber cry-it-out method](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0743201639/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0743201639&linkCode=as2&tag=redletterda04-20&linkId=455c9098422d20cbc602a9c44d2afe1c) which I know isn't for everyone, but after a few rough nights it clicked and she and started sleeping through the night again. It was incredibly hard to hear her crying those nights and not run in to comfort her, but it was miraculous to hear her cry a little less every night and soothe herself back to sleep. (You still go in and comfort them at intervals with this method which I actually think helped my sanity more than it helped her). 

As hard as it was, I tried to think about sleep training like other challenges she will have to go through in life. I won't always be able to fix everything for her, and I had to let her learn how to do this hard thing on her own. Once she got the hang of it life was good again. It's amazing what a good night's sleep can do for you. I value it so much now. And these days it's downright magic to be able to place her in her crib, hear her babble to herself for about 20 minutes, and then fall asleep on her own. 

That said, we still run into sleep issues when she's teething, or sick, or we're traveling, or any number of factors. But it usually only takes a few days for us to get back on track. I think as a parent you have to be flexible. I'm definitely not a sleeping expert, and I know what works for one baby might not work for another. For example, after raving about our rock n' play and lending it to a friend their baby ended up hating it! It's definitely a trial and error process that takes a lot of patience. 

Do you have a creative sleeping arrangement for your kids? Did you do sleep training with your babies? I'd love to hear any sleeping tips that work well for you in the comments below!
