---
published: true
---
I've recently been reading "The Magnolia Story" by Chip and Joanna Gaines. It's a fascinating behind the scenes look at their relationship and how they grew their home flipping business together. Before reading it I never gave a second thought to how much hard work must have gone into them growing their business before HGTV came calling. It turns out there was a ton of grit, hustle, and impulsiveness involved. 

I think one of the big reasons the world has fallen in love with Chip and Joanna is seeing how well they work together as a couple on the show. You can tell they are different, but they always seem to work things out. And they really enjoy working and just being together. There was one passage in the book about this that stood out to me. This is Joanna speaking. 

"One pretty amazing thing we learned early on was that the more time we spent together, the better our relationship was. I think a lot of couples feel the need to get away from each other now and then, to take little breaks, and they come back after a girls' weekend or a guys' fishing trip feeling all refreshed and happy to reconnect because they missed each other. 

We were just the opposite, and still are. We seem to give each other energy. We function better together than we do apart, and I don't think either one of us has ever felt the urge to say, "I need a break from you."

And was like girl, yes. YES.

I've often used the word "codependent" to describe mine and Brian's relationship, but that's never felt quite right. That word has a negative connotation, and that's not how I want to describe it. But it's true we love being together. Like all the time. When I go to events by myself, I have a great time, but I'm also thinking about how I can't wait to get home and see Brian again. Life is better when we are together. We give each other energy. 

But like Joanna says, for some couples, it's the opposite. They gain energy from being apart. From missing each other. I used to think I needed to be more like that. I've heard it's healthy for couples to spend time apart. But now I'm thinking, let's all just embrace what works for us! If you like taking trips with your girlfriends that's great. I would just rather be at home with Brian. Or traveling with Brian. Whatever. As long as we are together. 

This book also has my mind spinning about Brian and I starting a business together. It's something we've always wanted to do, we feel like our skills complement each other, but we lack Chip's impulsive "Just do it now!" attitude. We're both too practical for that and would like to have all our ducks in a row before we dive in. There's also the minor issue of us needing to figure out what exactly that business would be. So, for now, we're happy where we're at. 

Also have you seen [Chip and Joanna's line at Target](https://www.target.com/c/hearth-hand-with-magnolia/-/N-4k98u)?? I'll take one of everything please.
