---
published: false
---
I was originally going to start this out by proudly stating I haven't missed a week of blogging since I started this blog, but then of course life happened. After being an angel at bedtime all week, Hazel decided Thursday night (the night I usually publish) to scream bloody murder and refused to go to sleep. We were both up late, and there was no way a post was going out that night.

One of the goals I set for myself when I started this blog was to publish once a week for at least a year, and aside from this past week, I've been true to that so far. I'm curious to see if blogging is something I actually enjoy doing, and I figure I won't know that unless I really give it a go. I've started blogs in the past that I get really excited about, only to stop blogging a few months later, and I wanted to approach things differently this time. That said, once a week posts is a rule I set for myself, so I'm also giving myself permission to break that rule as needed every once in a while.

We're 7 months in, and my biggest takeaway so far is that blogging on a regular basis is wayyy more work than I anticipated. I have a newfound respect for professional bloggers/vloggers/Instagrammers who post multiple times a week. I don't have a job, and I can barely keep up with once a week. (I do have a baby, which I would feel is some kind of excuse for not having enough time to go around, but some of the bloggers I follow have multiple kids and are miraculously making it work). It takes me multiple naptimes to put a blog post together, and even then I'm usually up late Thursday night finishing things up. And that's just the writing bit. I always get the written part of my posts up, rain or shine, but taking photos is a whole other beast. Speaking of which... 

Taking photos is also way more time and effort than I realized. I love the personal touch photos can add to a blog, but man are they a ton of work. We took a big batch before I launched this blog, which is what I used for all my earlier posts, and it feels like we haven't had a free weekend since to take more. Also, if I'm being honest I kind of put off taking them. Given the choice between taking photos vs. literally any other activity on a Saturday, I will choose the latter, every time. And taking the photos is only half the battle! There's also the editing process afterward. I like a soft, natural light look in my photos, and it can take a surprising amount of work to get them looking the way I want them to. (Supposedly Lightroom should solve all my problems, but I'm such a newbie, and it's taking me some time to figure it out). 

Self-promotion is hard, and I'm really pretty bad at it. I enjoy writing, but I have a hard time asking people to read my blog. I do want people to read it, but I have a hard time sharing anything before I consider it to be "perfect." And not having photos up on my recent posts makes me feel like it's lacking. I keep thinking I need to let everyone know I have a new post, but then another week goes by. 

So I guess all this to say is that blogging is fun, but also tough. It's a lot more work and time than I realized. Most weeks I look forward to putting my blog posts together, but some weeks I really don't feel up for it, and I'm proud of myself for writing and publishing something anyway. 


